so let's uh go with our follow-up
question like what mistakes beginners
should not make in interviews you know
like they are making and you find it
hey everyone welcome to the 15th episode
of our podcast Series so today we are
going to have one of the most amazing
guests out there that is gaurav who is
currently sd2 at Amazon and yeah gaurav
you can introduce yourself we have
missed 13 points
yeah so thanks uh for the introduction
uh so my name is gaurav and I have total
of nine plus years of Industry
experience now uh and I have worked on
different like different extract and
different companies also and uh yeah so
that's basically about me
so yeah so gaurav can you like uh share
your whole journey like how you read so
much power because nine years is
something like a very amazing experience
so yeah we are eager to hear your whole
journey
right so yeah I will definitely share so
actually like I have started like I am
2013 batch password and uh when I have
started so at that point of time there
was a there was a recession which came
at 2008 because of that there was some
like the companies were very less hiring
and uh when I reached Bangalore so like
I haven't placed in on campus right so I
reached Bangalore for the off-campus
placements which we are going at the
time so I am talking about the time uh
at uh when there was no resources right
uh the resources which I am saying it's
like there were no communication
channels right let's say currently we
have telegram we have LinkedIn we have
YouTube channels right we have WhatsApp
groups right so there were no such uh
communication channels only uh one
resource which was uh Facebook right so
that was it and there was a BJs a very
pretty popular group bgs Bangalore job
Seeker groups right right so that was
the only source of Truth at the time so
what we used to do is we we checked that
group after 12 uh like at the night
right and there was some job post let's
say there are 10 job posts and they all
might be job like uh you have to go and
you have you have to reach that venue
and then your resume might get selected
like you have to take the hard copy of
resume I'm talking about the walk-in
interviews so many people might not be
aware of that situation so we have to
travel to that location sometime the
news is fake right because they have uh
they have like put those news but there
might be like uh some miscommunication
right so sometime that happened but when
when we reached there it's like a
thousand or two thousand of people right
and there your resume have to be
selected uh via hard copy so what they
used to do they took some kind of
aptitude test and with that they reject
most of the peoples because they took
like they take the bar so high of the
aptitude and reasoning only so that was
the judging criteria at that point of
time there was pretty less competence
which used to see on like judge on the
basis of data structures and algorithms
and those companies were like uh I
remember some of the companies like who
Huawei was there at the time uh that
that was that was hiring for like
walk-in interviews right but uh at that
time we were not that much skillful
because the data resources were pretty
less right so I'm talking about that
scenario so you all must be like so much
uh what what I will say so much
benefited with these kind of resources
HS also have this group right so so like
you have this opportunity uh and that is
kind of Boon and that is kind of demerit
also right because all of us now have
the opportunity to learn opportunity to
so so the competition is high right
because all of us us are having those
resources
right so like coming back to my journey
so I have got placed in like as off
campus in Infosys and uh and there was
like Mysore campus where where there is
like six months of training three to six
months of training and the training
stream like uh it was kind of pretty
good uh structured training right uh
there uh you you got a chance to learn
from java to.netic all those Tech stack
and that is pretty good I will say uh so
that was kind of a pretty good learning
step but after that I I got this
Development Center of Bangalore but
although I I got this training in.net
okay but but I was like pretty much uh
interested in Java and I got uh the
project also in dot Network so somehow
like I was doing the job but I was not
pretty much happy because I need uh to
have the development in Java for it so
but also the develop there was less
development there was more of
Maintenance so that was a reason for me
to switch right that was a kind of a
trigger point so everyone have this this
kind of trigger point right uh when they
plan to switch so I started so there was
I think lead code was not there at that
time definitely so hacker rang was there
techgig.com that website I know so
tagging.com and hackerrank.com these two
were the pretty popular website at the
time uh which have those sorts of
programming uh questions and when you
submit so tasks are right so lead code
was not there uh so I practiced mostly
on hackering at that time at the point
of time and then I got a chance to uh to
give interview in British Telecom uh
which was a UK based Telecom company
they were hiring for Java especially
Java Rule and they were not uh like
going in depth on your project right so
uh they mostly were concentrating on the
code Java skills and uh the data
structures somewhat it's not much
somewhat so I have cracked that because
I was studying Java in the background
and I was also practicing uh the coding
right uh the Hands-On skills so that was
kind of a good jump because that is the
product based company I got to learn
like how the how the environment get
changed right uh the product based
companies work differently as compared
to service based company so there I got
to learn I uh got good Hands-On on Java
and uh I got some good experience I
gained some good experience so I stayed
there I think two years so after that uh
I thought like many companies are moving
to Cloud technology right and I was not
getting hands-on experience on the cloud
because a British Telecom like at the
time they were reluctant to use the
cloud technology so that was another
trigger point for me to switch again and
then I moved to IBM labs and they were
hiring basically for the IBM Cloud right
so I I knew like I will get some good uh
like Hands-On on IBM Cloud right cloud
computing I will get in touch with that
although like AWS is the best in the
market currently also at that time also
uh but even though I will get to learn
some basics of cloud right so that's why
I moved to IBM Labs there and that is
also kind of a product based come that
is also product based company only uh
mostly on the software research site
right so the they're also a good
exposure on on the tech stack and also
pretty good people there like they are
mostly concentrating on innovation
so innovation
like uh whatever you do right you also
think of some something Innovative let's
say if you're doing something daily
basis but you don't know that that is
kind of you know you know which third
project product so those kind of thought
process and there are good uh like
people and I got to learn most from the
seniors there and then I stayed there
for three years then I was actually
preparing for uh the fan you say right
so Amazon always was a dream and I am
I'm not saying like I cracked at first
attempt right this was the third attempt
when I cracked Amazon so I have already
given two times and there was like face
to face I went to uh one or two
Development Center of Amazon in
Bangalore only but I got rejected in I
think second or third I don't remember
the round but yeah so that was kind of
uh like uh Facebook uh kind of a remote
remote setup when when I have given that
and that that was because of Kobe
and that time I have I cracked Amazon
and yeah so that was kind of a dream
come true I would say uh uh and yeah
like preparation is not I would not say
that is one year preparation two year
preparation it was kind of a journey
right uh as as what I'm saying I I have
tried two times earlier also right so it
is not it is not something if you are
not selected uh you should be like again
thinking back because it's your day when
your day comes right and everything will
would be right and if your day is not
there then something or something won't
work maybe the interviewer maybe you
haven't communicated well maybe the
interviewer was rude or something
anything can happen right because I am
also taken to sometime the mindset is
not good right so so everything like
anything can happen right so that's what
like uh my journey can teach you some
perseverance and patience right because
uh currently every fresher wants to lend
in in Amazon or Google from their first
the first step
so that is also a good thing to dream
and that is also like but if you are not
able to get that you shouldn't lose
patience maybe one year or two years
down the line you might get there
yep there was like a great journey like
nine years you've gone to clean courses
and you've got furthermore companies and
finally you landed Amazon sd2 it became
Amazon yeah so yeah so uh I would like
to ask you like uh what are the mistakes
that you think beginners make in their
resumes
and they should not make it what's your
tip on it because you have an
interesting experience as well as you
are taking interviews so yeah you will
be a very rightful to like give the tips
yeah so in resume basically uh what I
saw recently is people are writing how
many number of problems they have solved
especially on lead code and uh they have
got this badges or something right that
is not an achievement I would say
achievement is let's say if you're
leading a team leading uh and an event
in your college right uh you you are
you're basically a team leader and uh
basically uh maybe you you have you have
organized some uh so maybe NGO event or
something like why I'm saying is that
because that will show your team skill
rate I I would I would be interested to
hire you if you're a team player not
just a single kind of a single line in
the jungle right because I want to run a
team and I am always looking for a team
player for my for my uh for my team uh I
don't think any team will will hire a
person who is very good only very good
at coding and he doesn't communicate
well right and he doesn't explain how
the code is working and he doesn't
explain to other stakeholders uh if if
this logic if we have written this logic
and why he have chosen this data
structure why he he or she haven't
chosen another data structure so if they
are not able to explain that that is a
big flag red flag for me to have
so even if you are solving problems
right uh you should you should be also
able to communicate those so that is
like a uh a one a bad thing I saw in
resume and uh what others okay so um
nowadays uh there are more like
Awareness on the open source right so
let's say if you have contributed or if
you have created your own like something
by your own right so showcase that uh
maybe if you have uploaded on GitHub
maybe anywhere else it showcase that
that will be a good plus point
uh why I'm saying is we are looking for
a good Hands-On skill right so that will
give you a plus point in your resume uh
what apart from that um
yeah I think those are the main things
in from interns or from freshers we are
we are basically looking and you should
you should uh you should be knowing
everything whatever you write in your
resume that is a that is the main thing
let's see if we have added n number of
physical but you are only good at two
skills so only add those that's that's
fine
yeah so let's uh go with our follow-up
question like what mistakes beginners
should not make in interviews you know
like they are making and you find it
yeah yeah so yeah again on the same
thing let's say I will talk about the
coding interview so let's say if you got
got any problem you should uh you should
not jump directly on the approach you
should ask some questions so let's say
what is the size of uh let let's say uh
how many elements it should accommodate
if if we are talking about an array is
given right and uh if it is a any fixed
size given uh are those like do they
contain duplicate uh are there negative
elements also are they flip floating
points like those sorts of questions if
you ask uh then it will give some
impression on the introvert like you you
are jotting down and you are getting
into the constant right so whenever you
solve an Euclid code problem or any
hacker from hackering problem they give
you the constraint uh on the problem
right on on the problem description only
but when you go into the interview they
will uh they will not give you all the
constraints and they will keep it open
so that you ask and then they will like
you both conclude like these are the
construations right so first is to ask
questions then you jump to the solution
which is the Brute Force One uh and you
explain uh This Is The Brute Force
approach then try to make it more
efficient by adding some data structures
and then finally at the most efficient
solution according to you then you try
to uh code it so that that sort sort of
format you should follow in the coding
interview basically now if we come to
the uh basically let's say uh let's say
Project based or those sorts of
questions right so then you should not
lose your confidence that is the first
thing like some people become nervous
right so they forgot whatever they learn
whatever they knew also they forgot so
that happened to me also that's that's
why I'm saying so if if you if you are
going in your first interview you should
not be feeling nervous you should be
confident enough whatever you know you
you you can tell uh don't lie basically
sometimes is fine but if you if you told
a bigger lie then it it will affect you
basically so don't try to uh lie in the
interview and uh whatever you know you
can tell and if you don't know you can
upfront tell that and you tell like if
if if there is some chance I would be uh
like I would be learning that and that's
that's fine
and uh yeah so those are the basically
the tips
I totally like one of your point like
the person who is having very uh who's
very high rated quota he saw a lot of
problems I was not able to like tell his
approach because I see my friends who
are a five-star coder who are very good
quotas but they are not selected just
because of their communication skills
they are not available
so any like final advice like on a
generic note like uh nowadays you can
see that recession is happening lots of
companies are firing companies have
raised their bar so like in the present
conditions what are your like final
advice final tips that we'd like to
yeah yeah sure so
yeah the situation was not great uh from
December or January uh and uh people got
like layoff also and people lose their
jobs but uh from past one one and a half
I think two months the situation is uh
getting better and better and the people
who got laid off also they are rehired
in the same organization that is also
happening uh you might not be able to
see on the LinkedIn post uh but those
are getting rehired so that's what I am
also uh now seeing like we are getting a
lot of job opportunities for freshers
less for freshers more for experience so
uh I used to say like for two plus years
of exhibition there are a lot of jobs
now in the market so the advice is
basically uh yeah the the interview bar
might be higher but it's not that higher
uh they people are still asking the same
sort of uh programming patterns that is
still available there right so lead code
experience interview experience section
is good I would say but you should not
be like only focusing on that there are
different like gigs for gigs also
provide the interview experience right
so you can go there also check and uh so
there there is also uh like interesting
things coming coming out to have some
knowledge of on lld also if you are two
plus of experience by lld I mean uh the
solid principles design patterns how you
how you format how you create a package
it's a by package I mean how you
organize your classes interfaces if I
talk about Java basically and how you
make the clean code like how you write
clean code
right so that whatever code you write
that should be extensible in future so
uh these resources like uh solid
principles and these all uh lld you
should be having good knowledge now
because that's what expectation for a
two plus not on the hld I would say uh
mostly on this part solid principle
design patterns and led right so that
would be helpful and I also share like
some posts on LinkedIn so maybe if you
follow you can do that so yeah let's
that other advice basically
uh thank you so much gaurav like you uh
like uh for giving us your precious time
and like sharing all your experience
like whole journey it was like amazing
uh like finally we can like it's like a
motivational like finally we can reach
anywhere we want if we just think about
it we uh like do proper homework for it
right right
thanks